CGRA 151, T2 2016, Assignment 5 Report

Student name: Sanjay Govind
Student ID: 300383656
Name of game/artwork: Bob's Adventure

Vision
1. Game concept: A platformer exploring the concept of being able to stick to the ceiling
2. Game play: A 3d side scrolling game where the player is stuck on a 2d plane and can move freely
around the level. This is where 2.5D comes into play, and my goal is to have it be a multiplayer
game where players must work together too free themselves and get to the goal. The gameplay requires players to
collect keys and coins while avoiding spikes, and they can interact with objects in the world
to open gates and get to the exit. The player has a unique ability where they can stick to the ceiling.
3. Visual design: A 2.5D game with assets made in MagicaVoxel, a 3d modelling application for
making models out of voxels.
Achievement
I managed to make a simple platformer in processing, using 3d. It has a simple level format that makes it easy to edit, and you control multiple characters to add a puzzle element.
I was talked out of making it truley multiplayer, so i implemented a character switching mechanic instead.

Technical Challenges
I found out that loading a background added a big amount of lag to processing, and this ruined many of my plans, until i worked out that creating my own 2d plane and rendering my image
to that had no issues vs using background(). I feel this may be due to how object rendering is optimised for opengl, while background() may not be since it will be used a lot in Java2D.

Rendering 3d objects was a big issue at first as loading normal obj models meant i could not use animations and many models would lag out if they were too complex. However, i found some
models from quake and realised that its file format was very simple, and ported it to processing, after working out there was an exporter for blender. This meant i could animate my models
in blender and render them in processing.
Reflection
I found that this assessment was much easier since i had done most of my game during pxljm. However, i found that i managed my time poorly, and most of my code was done in the last few
days. I am proud of what my game turned out like, and feel many of my problems were issues with processing on its own. I think that processing could be a very useful application for art,
however it is not suited to games as it has many performance issues that require complex hacks to get past, something that a game developer would not want to spen their time on.

Many of my textures were created by Daniel Pinfold, however i had to attach them to models myself.